---
title: "ABS"
---



## Basic Ideas

- 资产证券化是指将缺乏流动性但能够产生可预见的稳定现金流的资产，通过一定的结构安排，对资产中风险与收益要素进行分离与重组，进而转换成为在金融市场上可出售、可流通的证券的过程

- Structured finance instruments:
    - (1) pooling of assets (either cash-based or synthetically created);
    - (2) tranching of liabilities that are backed by the asset pool (this property differentiates structured finance from traditional “pass-through” securitizations);
    - (3) de-linking of the credit risk of the collateral asset pool from the credit risk of the originator, usually through the use of a finite-lived, standalone special purpose vehicle (SPV).
- The transaction is structured to modify or redistribute the risk of the collateral among different classes of investors by the use of a structure.
- Securitization involves the pooling of assets/receivables and the issuance of securities by a special purpose vehicle. The end result of a securitization transaction is that a corporation can obtain proceeds by selling assets and not borrowing funds.
- The asset securitization process transforms a pool of assets into one or more securities referred to as asset-backed securities.
- A securitization differs from traditional forms of financing in that the cash flow generated by the asset pool can be employed to support one or more securities that may be of higher credit quality than the company’s secured debt.
- Three advantages of securitization compared to nonrecourse and modified recourse factoring are that
    - (1) there is a typically lower funding cost when a securitization is used;
    - (2) receivables that factors will not purchase may be acceptable for securitization;
    - (3) proceeds from the sale in a securitization are received immediately while the firm may or may not obtain a cash advance from the factor.
- The parties to a securitization are the originator, the servicer, and the investors in the asset-backed securities.
    - **The originator** (also referred to as the originator/seller) makes the loans based on its underwriting standards and **sells a pool of loans it originates to an SPV**, the sale being required to be a true sale for legal purposes.
    - **The SPV purchases the pool of loans** from the proceeds obtained from the **sale of the asset-backed securities.** The capital structure of the SPV can involve just one bond class or several bond classes with different priorities on the cash flow from the collateral.

## Issuer Motivation

- The main reasons that corporations use securitization are
    - (1) the potential for reducing funding costs;
    - (2) the ability to diversify funding sources;
    - (3) the ability to manage corporate risk;
    - (4) for financial entities that must satisfy risk-based capital requirements, potential relief from capital requirements;
    - (5) the opportunity to achieve off-balance financing
    - (6) the opportunity to generate fee income.

## Valuing ABS and MBS

### Zero-volatility Spread

  Zero volatility spread measures the spread over the spot curve assuming a zero volatility input to the interest rate model.

  先构建一条无风险利率期限结构曲线，**假设利率只有一条路径**，利用该曲线求远期利率，再计算某债券的利差。

  Option-adjusted spread, the average spread across all simulated trajectories, which equates the average of each price along the simulated trajectories to the current price.

### OAS

  - 用蒙特卡罗模拟出多期单月远期利率，由远期利率计算出预期的每期利率 $z_t$
  - 利差（K）加入所有利率路径的月当前利率，计算现金流的现值
  - 每期现值加起来折到现在，所有的蒙特卡洛模拟路径求平均，得到一个理论价值
  - 市场上的某个在交易的期权存在一个价格，令这个价格等于预期现金流的现值，可以求出一个利差，就是OAS；然后这个OAS可以用在pricing其他风险类似的ABS
    - 期权成本=零波动利差-OAS
    - Backward equation with OAS

    $$P_n=\frac{c_{n+1} \mathrm E_n[P_{n+1}]}{1+r_{n}+s}$$

  

### Interest Models

  Vasicek Model

  $$dR_t=a(b-R_t)dt+\sigma dW_t$$

  CIR Model

  $$dR_t=a(b-R_t)dt+\sigma \sqrt R_t dW_t$$

  Hull-White Model

  $$dR_t=a(b_t-R_t)dt+\sigma dW_t$$

  Heath–Jarrow–Morton framework


## Structuring Agency MBS Deals

  In the agency mortgage-backed securities market, the prepayment benchmarks used are the conditional prepayment rate and the Public Securities Association (PSA) prepayment benchmark.

  The conditional prepayment rate (CPR) as a measure of the speed of prepayments assumes that some fraction of the remaining principal in the mortgage pool is prepaid each month for the remaining term of the collateral.

  The CPR is an annual prepayment rate and its corresponding monthly rate is called the single monthly mortality (SMM) rate. 

  $$CPR=PSA\times \frac{i}{30}\times 6\%(0\leq i\leq 30), CPR=6\%(i>30) \\  SMM=1-(1-CPR)^{1/12}   $$

  The first and second monthly payment

  $$Payment_1=\frac{Principal}{\frac{1-1/WAC^{WAM}}{WAC}}
    $$

  $$Outstanding\ 
    Balance=Principal-Scheduled\ Principal-Prepaid\ Principal
    $$

  $$Payment_2=\frac{Outstanding\ Balance}{\frac{1-1/WAC^{WAM-1}}{WAC}}
    $$

  the scheduled principal payment of the first two months

  $$
    Scheduled\ Principal_1=Payment_1-Interest_1=Payment_1-PT/12\times Balance_0
    $$

  $$Scheduled\ Principal_2=Payment_2-Interest_2=Payment_2-PT/12\times Balance_1$$

  the prepaid principal payment 

  $$
    Prepaid\ Principal\ Payment_1=SMM_1\times(Balance_0-Scheduled\ Principal_1)
    $$

  the cash flow generated by the MBS

  $$

    Cashflow_1=Interest_1+Scheduled\ Principal_1+Prepaid\ Principal_1
    $$
   
    
#### Modeling Prepayment

  $$TP_{CPR} = Turnover + Rate-Refi + Curing + Default$$

  - Seasoning period. The number of months over which base voluntary prepayments (housing turnover, cash-out refinancing and credit upgrades but not rate refinancing or defaults) are assumed to increase to long-term levels. 就是上面的CPR分段函数，时间一长就看成稳定了。
  - Housing turnover. 中国经济向好的时候大家就会早偿房贷买新房。
  - Default.
  - Credit curing. This is the long-term rate at which borrowers prepay their mortgages because **improved credit and/or increased home prices enable them to get better rates and/or larger loans**. As the pool burns out, the rate of curing declines. 信用向好的时候先把这个利率高的还完然后用低利率再借钱，信用矫正。
  - Maximum rate-related conditional prepayment rate (CPR).
  - Maximum rate-related CPR for burnout. The CPR is lower for a pool that has experienced no prior rate-related refinancing. The lower the ratio, the faster the pool burns out.
  - Refinancing threshold. This is the amount by which the current market loan rate must fall below the collateral WAC to trigger rate-related financing.
  - Curing threshold. This is the amount by which the current market loan rate must increase above the collateral WAC to eliminate curing related financing.
  - Yield-curve sensitivity. This sensitivity is the maximum yield-curve correction of rate-related CPR that occurs when the yield-curve slope rises above/falls below the historical average.
  - Half-life burnout. This is the time frame in years that a collateral pool must be fully refinancable to reduce interest rate sensitivity 50% of the way from maximum rate-related CPR to maximum rate-related CPR for burnout.


### Measuring Interest Risk

  $$\begin{aligned}
    \text { Effective duration } & \approx \frac{-100}{P} \times \frac{\Delta P}{\Delta y} \\
    &=\frac{100}{P} \times \frac{P(-\Delta y)-P(\Delta y)}{2 \times \Delta y}
    \end{aligned}$$

  $$\begin{aligned}\text { Convexity } &=\frac{100}{P} \times \frac{d^{2} P}{d y^{2}} \\& \approx \frac{100}{P} \times \frac{\left(\frac{P(-\Delta y)-P}{\Delta y}-\frac{P-P(\Delta y)}{\Delta y}\right)}{\Delta y} \\&=\frac{100}{P} \times \frac{P(\Delta y)+P(-\Delta y)-2 P}{(\Delta y)^{2}}\end{aligned}$$
    
    
## Reference

  Advanced Bond Portfolio Management: Best Practices in Modeling and Strategies / Frank J. Fabozzi

  Introduction to Securitization / Frank J. Fabozzi, Vinod Kothari 

  Salomon Smith Barney Guide to Mortgage-Backed and Asset-Backed Securities

  Investing in Mortgage-Backed and Asset-Backed Securities / Glenn M. Schultz, Frank J. Fabozzi

  [漫话ABS | 三分钟看懂ABS动态估值定价法：期权调整利差法（OAS）](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?subscene=23&__biz=MzA4MjgyNjQxMw==&mid=2654141343&idx=1&sn=3427410ecc70389e45cfedacce643eb7&chksm=84399e5db34e174b930f4efb3fb2778690bc818924e3097832c4b13cac57e93cbaa058580baf&scene=7&key=3f00b1f81753e45d04f517ccb790b7907993a0075986a09837c376d5ae83f30f0e2d11ad50da81bacd5bcb12aec60a1be2deafef84d31bf244b6ba8b23425f65f304345bcda40f994952c38a84c9108417c872aa80a0e2d6b85ebdafeb568e5732caadd6c9f729a52499eaca763033a44b04c7662027607be391c6d22a026777&ascene=0&uin=MjU1NDk5MDUwOA%3D%3D&devicetype=Windows+10+x64&version=6300002f&lang=zh_CN&exportkey=A%2BwNsCRptlXikb1enarMbdU%3D&pass_ticket=ok4tnaFWS7zPPSCRKPSyUIzrRRcpn0LMaKl%2FkngUWsaWK0ChENo%2FKgwaJH5CCexq&wx_header=0)
